#OBJECTIVES
Goal: Improve Aircraft and Passenger Flight Security - Commercial Aviation	This is a sample project.  Click video to see a short explanation.     For other samples as well as how-to videos and other resources,  see Resource Center     The overall goal or objective of this choice deciison is to improve commercial aircraft security while ensuring maximum passenger and crew safety.  These are evaluated as applied to domestic and international commercial aviation.  The major criteria for the analyses include the financial perspective, the implementation perspective, the combined safety and risk assessment perspective and the technology perspective.  These major or top level perspectives constitute the major considerations by which the alternatives are evaluated.        .
  Financial Impact Considerations	Includes all the costs associated with research and development, all costs associated witht the implementation or deployment of new systems, components, programs, procedures (i.e., one time incurred) plus those costs associated with on-going maintenance, replacement material/labor costs for systems or modified structures as prescribed by any retrofit of exisiting aircraft..
    Research & Development Costs	Includes all direct and indirect costs associated with research and development, material costs, plus costs incurred for all testing, evaluation and analysis of alternatives for stated objectives.
    Implementation or Deployment Costs	Includes all costs associated with implementation, installation or deployment of an alternative to include training, equipment and systems installations, aircraft structural modifications, reengineering costs for exisiting aircraft, as well as maintenance costs for repetitive airframe and powerplant actions required (i.e., maintenance actions at depot level or ramp incurred).
      Training	Includes the costs associated with a comprehensive training approach.  These include the developmental costs for a comprehensive training program, the administration of a training program, the initial application of training to affected personnel, plus periodic or annual update training and/or certifications or qualifications, as necessary.
        Comprehensive Training Program Development	Includes only the costs (usually indirect and material costs) associated with Training Program Development (i.e., one time occurrence).  Further modifications to the training program can be captured here as a cost to sustain the training program(s), as required.
        Administer Initial Training	Includes all cost impacts to administer the actual training, as developed, to affected personnel.  Usually, these are direct costs.
        Periodic Retraining & Updates (Annual et al)	Includes all cost impacts to administer the retraining and further updates to original training as developed, to affected or selected personnel.  Usually, these are direct costs as well.  May include recertifications and/or requalifications testings.
      Equipment & Systems Installations	Includes the direct labor and material costs incurred for original installation of equipment at the airline depot facility maintenance (C or D Check).   Assesses the costs of new aircraft systems, new LRUs or new equipment installed as an integral part of all reengineered systems for exisiting and deployed aircraft.  Does not include any on-going maintenance direct labor costs or costs associated with the actual reengineering effort.  Only affects deployed or airline owned aircraft and does not account for costs incurred at the aircraft original equipment manufacturers.
        Initial Installation Costs	Includes the one-time costs associated with the direct labor used to install modifications, components or LRUs as prescribed by the retrofit of existing aircraft.  Includes original equipment (first time installation costs).  Does not include on-going replacement material/labor costs.
        Systems Replacement Costs	Includes the repetitive or on-going costs of maintenance to remove and replace LRUs or components associated with prior installations such as all LRUs as prescribed by the retrofit of existing aircraft.  Does not include original equipment (first time installation costs).  Captures only the material costs associated with systems replacement on and on-going preventive maintenance basis.  Direct labor costs are captured as an integral part of Maintenance Costs.
      Aircraft Structural Modifications	Includes the one-time costs incurred for installation (e.g., direct labor, indirect labor and material costs) of all reengineered structural modifications (i.e., retrofit) for exisiting and deployed aircraft.  Does not include incorporation of revised engineering on new aircraft at original equipment manufacturers.
      Re-engineering Costs for Exisiting Aircraft	Includes the one-time costs incurred for reengineering structural modifications (i.e., retrofit) for exisiting and deployed aircraft.  Does not include incorporation of revised engineering on new aircraft at original equipment manufacturers.  Reengineering activities are usually an indirect cost.  Reengineering labor only.
    Maintenance Costs	Includes the repetitive or on-going direct labor costs incurred for repetitive airline depot facility maintenance (C or D Check) of aircraft systems, LRUs or equipment installed as an integral part of all reengineered systems for exisiting and deployed aircraft.  Does not include any original installation direct labor costs or costs associated with the actual reengineering effort.  Only affects deployed or airline owned aircraft and does not account for costs incurred at the aircraft original equipment manufacturers.
  Implementation Considerations	Implementation Considerations include the impact of the actual implementation of the recommended alternative.  These include the timeframe or period of performance to actually implement the required change(s), the degree of difficulty (e.g., major structural modification versus minor LRU installation), and the mandate by which the change(s) are required.
    Implementation Time Schedule Impact	Implementation Time Frame or Schedule for incorporation of prescribed change(s) includes the impact to a commercial airline's depot maintenance facility to schedule and install the required changes.  The installations or incorporation of new or revised engineering requirements will impact the depot maintenance facility to the extent required by the changes involved.  The urgency of the changes may require grounding of affected aircraft.        Lost revenue from grounded aircraft awaiting aircraft modifications or on-going maintenance required by any retrofit activities can be captured and costed here.
    Implementation - Degree of Difficulty	This assesses the impact in terms of manpower and man-hours required at an airline depot maintenance facility to incorporate re-engineering requirements, prepare aircraft modifications, install prescribed systems or LRUs.  Includes number of aircraft removed from service at any one given time for incorporation of alternative(s).
    Urgency Requirements	Methodology employed to enact the required alternatives or changes.  May be mandated by Federal Law, United States Department of Transportation Airworthiness Directives, or Service Bulletins.
      Airworthiness Directive DOT (Required by Law)	Airworthiness Directives are issued by the United States Department of Transportation (with the cooperation of the original equipment manufacturer) and have the full intent and impact of Federal Law.  These Airworthiness Directives must be complied with in the manner indicated and in the timeframe prescribed including mandatory grounding of affected aircraft.
      Service Bulletin (Recommended)	Service Bulletins are issued by the original equipment manufacturer(s) and are forwarded to affected airlines in conjunction with and tacit approval of the United States Department of Transportation.  These are recommended service or aircraft modifications and do not require immediate implementation or grounding of affected aircraft.  Usually, these Service Bulletins can be complied with at the next scheduled aircraft C or D  Check at the depot facility maintenance.  Service Bulletins do not carry the weight or intent of Federal Law.  (See Airworthiness Directives).
  Safety and Risk Considerations	Safety and Risk Considerations includes a comprehensive risk assessment of all alternatives as to whether these create added potential for collateral damage to the aircraft structure and systems, or direct harm to the passengers or airline crew.  Further,  - counter-terrorist measures, when fully employed - do these potential alternatives create additional risk as to potential loss of the aircraft or impede in-flight aircraft recovery thereby reducing the potential for aircraft, passenger, and crew overall survivability.
    Collateral Damage Potential	Collateral damage includes the assessment of the potential to inflict damage or harm to the safety or security of the aircraft itself, the on-board passengers and airline flight crew.
      Aircraft Structure or Systems	Includes potential damage to the aircraft structure, aircraft electrical and/or hydraulic systems, cabin pressurization, oxygen lines, fuel lines and other aircraft systems.
      Passenger Exposure to Risk	Includes the potential exposure and risk to airline passengers due to the incorporation of the revisions, changes or alternatives being evaluated.
      Crew Exposure to Risk	Includes the potential exposure and risk to airline professional crew (i.e., pilots, flight attendants) due to the incorporation of the revisions, changes or alternatives being evaluated.
    Loss of Aircraft	Includes the assessment of the potential for catastrophic loss of aircraft due in part to the incorporation of rengineering changes, revisions, modifications or systems installations as well as procedural changes in methodology of operations.
    Survivability Potential	Includes an assessment of the fail-safe or backup systems assuming an incident or incidents occur(s) during flight.  Also includes ability to recover from evasive maneuvers, loss of pressurization or other tactics employed as counter-terrorist measures.
  Technology Considerations	Technology Considerations take a comprehensive approach to new technologies.  These include the actual feasibility of the new technology as it pertains to actual research and development of a new technology (known vs. unknown).  Also, the potential for practical application of the new technology is assessed.        Technology assessment includes the review of the element for reliability, dependability, and accuracy of the technology.
    Technological Feasibility	Technology feasibility is an assessment as to whether the new technology can be realistically developed.  Are the research and knowledge-bases available and are the technologies extensions of known technologies or completely new in concept and application?
      Research & Knowledge  Availability	Includes an assessment of the realistic ability to invent, develop or create a technology to accomplsih a stated objective.  Assesses the availability of particular technologies and/or applications and whether the research is wholly new or an extension of known technologies.
      Developmental Time-Line	Includes an assessment of the time-frame to research, develop, and refine a specific technology, system, program or event to accomplsih a stated objective.  Assessment includes realistic time-frame from concept inception through to actual deployment.  While many technology concepts are abstract, is the concept actually deployable in a timely manner?
    Technological Applicability & Practicality	Applicability concept means the ability to actually apply an alternative to a commercial environment.  Can the proposed change work in commercial aviation under controlled conditons?  Simply, can it be done?        Practicality means even though the alternative can be applied, is it actually practical for commercial aviation on a sustained or permanent basis?  Is it practical?
      Ability to Apply Technology to Commercial Aviation	Includes a practical assessment of the actual ability to apply the proposed technologies, programs, systems, changes, revisions (i.e., alternatives) to commercial aviation on a wide range of aircraft and across a number of commercial airlines.  Can the changes be applied to commercial aviation to encompass a wide range of applications?
      Practical Commercial Use of Technology Application	Includes an overall assessment as to whether the new changes, revisions, reengineering requirements, new systems or programs (i.e., technologies or alternatives) are practical in a commercial environment.  Are the new systems, programs, or procedures (alternatives), stable, secure and viable in commercial applications?
    Technological Reliability & Dependability	Includes an overall assessment of the proposed technology, program, system or event (i.e., allternative) for both reliability and dependability purposes.
      Systems Reliability & Repeatability	Includes the impact assessment for reliability and repeatability.  For a system to be reliable, it must be able to perform constantly, consistently and consecutively in the same manner (i.e., even if the output is always wrong, it must be consistent) to preclude unknown or wide-range variation.          Repeatability means the system must be able to duplicate prior actions with the same results ( i.e., to preclude systemic variations).
      Systems Availablity & Dependability	Includes an assessment for systems or technologies availablity and dependability.  These concepts address the known time a system or technology is available (i.e., ready and will work or function properly) and is dependable (i.e., will continue to function properly).
    Technological Accuracy	Technological accuracy means the actual product accuracy of a technology, program, system or event as chosen as a logical alternative for incorporation in commercial aviation applications.  Includes as assessment of the potential accuracy of an alternative on a sustained or permanent basis.