#ALTERNATIVES
Mandatory In-Person Training within the Company	Mandatory In-Person Training internally to First Advantage. Training will be by top managers from across the company with a showing from the Vice President of the Company. Managers training the employees will take time out of their schedule to attend training that covers sexual harassment definition, how to prevent it in the workplace, and how to effectively deliver the policy. The cost of this policy is $10,000.
Mandatory In-Person Training by an Outside Contractor 	Mandatory In-Person Training by an Outside Contractor that specializes in training human resource policys such as sexual harassment policy. The training will be conducted in the classroom and delivered by contracted professionals outside the company. The contractor will deliver the policy and be responsible for being available for counseling, administering complaints to the company, and providing their expert recommendations on making the policy better. The cost of this policy is $15,000.
Mandatory In-person Training within the Company and Mandatory Online Training by an Outside Contract	A combination of mandatory In-person Training within the Company and Mandatory Online Training by an Outside Contractor. In classroom training will be by top managers from across the company with a showing from the Vice President of the Company. Managers training the employees will take time out of their schedule to attend training that covers sexual harassment definition, how to prevent it in the workplace, and how to effectively deliver the policy. In addition, there will be another mandatory training online that will be conducted and administered by a contractor that specializes in large company human resource policies such as sexual harassment prevention. The contractor will be responsible for administering complaints yet internal company points of contact will be provided for counseling if an employee feels they are a victim. The cost of this alternative is $20,000.
Do Nothing and Offer Optional Online Training	Do Nothing and Offer Optional Online Training. the online training may be slightly modified as time permits given the availibility of company resources. The online training offers definition of sexual harassment, examples in the workplace, how to prevent it, and a toll free phone number to call within the human resources department of First Advantage. There is no additional charge to the company for this alternative.
